The EU has dropped plans to force toaster-makers to improve the energy efficiency of their products over fears of the political costs of being seen to be intruding in people’s daily lives, it has emerged.

But while a new EU plan to cut emissions controversially omits several appliances, the manufacturers of electric kettles, refrigerators and hand driers will have to make their future products consume less energy.

Solar panels and building automation systems are among the six product ranges set to benefit from the Ecodesign package, which should help Europe meet its obligations under the Paris climate agreement.

But hairdryers, hot drinks vending machines and toasters – the subject of a tabloid campaign during the Brexit referendum – will be excluded, the commission’s first vice-president, Frans Timmermans, told a Brussels press conference.

“We want to put the products on the list that have the highest energy yield,” he said. “That is why kettles are on the list, because they are very high in terms of energy yields, and toasters are not on the list.”

An internal EU “lines to take” document from last month, seen by the Guardian, shows that fears of hostile press coverage were central to the proposal’s genesis.



The cabinet-level document notes that the EU has been “regularly accused of regulatory over-reach and intrusiveness in people’s daily lives and behavioural choices, when banning products from the market and limiting consumer choice.

“The strong negative publicity about intrusiveness raises the question whether the estimated but hardly evaluated economic benefits are worth the political costs for the EU and the commission in particular.”

The commission broke with a tradition of announcing the package after extensive studies and consultation due to an initiative by Jean-Claude Juncker to make all commissioners take “political ownership” of it.

A separate internal EU note seen by the Guardian shows that the six-product list was personally chosen by Juncker for “explicit validation” by other commissioners.

In the document, lines are drawn through products such as toasters, hairdryers and signage displays, which “Juncker recommends … above all not to be part of a possible package,” the document says.

After an 18-month legislative delay, green groups said they were uncomfortable about the EU’s announcement.

“The decision to remove five domestic and industrial products from the Ecodesign list will cost consumers €2bn annually from 2030 onwards,” warned Chloé Fayole, a spokeswoman for the Coolproducts campaign. “We are also concerned about the fate of three IT products, including smartphones, which are not part of the list.”

Stéphane Arditi of the European Environmental Bureau said that smartphones were a “glaring absence” in the package, throwing doubt on how the EU would cut their emissions from manufacture, use and disposal, which are considerable.

The Ecodesign framework brings in an estimated €55bn in extra revenue for industry, creating as many as 800,000 jobs and saving Europe’s householders an estimated €490 in energy bills each year, according to the EU.

Ecodesign is also responsible for half of the EU’s 20% energy savings expected by 2020 – and a quarter of its emissions cuts. But energy efficiency can be a hard sell in consumer societies, and the EU’s ecodesign plans have spurred newspapers such as the Daily Express to decry them as a threat to “the British way of life”.

Speaking to journalists in Brussels, Timmermans acknowledged that the tabloids had been “very influential” in drawing out the EU’s ecodesign policy-making process.

“We were very sensitive to what we’ve seen the media whipping up in the last couple of years,” he said. “But after careful analysis you have to make a choice – if you go along with this rhetoric or let the evidence speak for itself and that’s what we did.”



The Ecodesign package should still save as much primary energy as Sweden consumes annually, although its predecessors saved as much energy as was generated by Italy.