The arrival of winter is a double-edged sword for the garden lover. On the one hand we accept it as an inevitable part of the cycle of seasons. But there is always a part of me that slips into mournful mode once green is subsumed by brownish grey in the garden. Fortunately there are plenty of wonderful horticultural experiences to be had in warmer climes to help banish any winter gardening blues.

A Moreton Bay fig tree Credit: Alena Stalmashonak - Fotolia

Southern California is a favourite destination of mine in late autumn and winter, with daytime temperatures in the south of the state around 20C and some highly memorable landscapes. The drive down the Pacific Coast Highway is never to be forgotten. Starting north of San Francisco in the wine regions of Napa and Sonoma, the route takes in the seaside towns of Santa Cruz, Monterey and Carmel and the soaring redwoods and near-empty beaches of Big Sur. Santa Barbara is a must-visit town if you’re into plants, and is graced with a range of fascinating trees, including a record-breaking Moreton Bay fig tree (Ficus macrophylla), which was designated a California historic landmark in 1970.

On the edge of town is one of the most eclectic gardens ever made. Lotusland is the creation of Ganna Walska, a Polish-born opera singer who arrived in Santa Barbara in the early Forties, and soon after bought the 37-acre plot with the intention of encouraging Tibetan monks to visit and stay. Perhaps unsurprisingly this endeavour was unsuccessful, after which Walska changed the name of the property from Tibetland to Lotusland and got on with making a truly exceptional garden. The singer created a garden of rooms, a concept that many will be familiar with from places such as Sissinghurst and Hidcote. Where Lotusland is wildly different, however, is in the contents of these spaces. There is a room of succulents, another of cycads, exuberant topiary and the blue garden, featuring vast blue-grey Agave.

A photo posted by Blake Bronstad (@posesawkwardly) on Nov 2, 2016 at 3:22pm PDT

Walska enjoyed massing single species of plants, and so there is an aloe garden with more than 170 types. She died in 1984 but the garden has continued to develop, with the inclusion of a madcap cactus area. I visited on a sunny day in October, and with the doors of the house thrown open and Walska’s soprano piped from a gramophone it was easy to imagine she might waft through her “theatre garden”.

While Lotusland is a confection of exotic species, Santa Barbara Botanic Garden focuses on the preservation of native plants. Few botanic gardens have a more spectacular setting, with views down canyons and into the mountains beyond.

Santa Barbara Botanic Garden Credit: ALAMY

Green-fingered poet Edward James might have been a neighbour of Walska, had he not decided that Los Angeles wasn’t quite the right place to embark on a new horticultural venture. Instead James ended up in Xilitla, Mexico, where he created a fantastical landscape garden, Las Pozas, in the mountainous subtropical rainforest. He filled the jungle with towering surrealist sculptures that have evocative names such as “The House with a Roof like a Whale”.

Las Pozas Credit: tanko.ca/Barna_Tanko

Tasmania is a long way from California, but the 22-acre gardens at Inverawe share commonalities with Santa Barbara Botanic Garden. The owners embarked on a programme of replanting with Australian natives. Some of the quirkier touches – such as the gnome-like characters – are an acquired taste, but the plant collections and views are worth the journey alone. A trip to Inverawe can be easily doubled up with one to the Royal Tasmanian Botanical Gardens, which has, uniquely, a sub-Antarctic plant house.

If you only have a long weekend to spare, Marrakesh is the place. It’s warm enough to take the chill out of the bones even in December with highs of up to 19C. Jardin Majorelle is the most famous garden in Morocco, the iconic blue forever associated with Yves Saint-Laurent, who with his partner Pierre Bergé restored the original garden made by Jacques Majorelle. But it isn’t the bustling city’s only attraction. The Agdal Gardens are really a huge orchard rather than a traditional garden, originally laid out for the royal family more than 800 years ago. There are superb privately owned gardens too, such as one at Jnane Tamsna and the cloister-like courtyard at Riad Enija, located in the old Medina.

10 top trips to exotic gardens

By Trisha Andres

The change in the season, from mild to cold – when leaves turn from a golden green to a fiery red to a subdued brown – shouldn’t deter the lover of plants and flowers. After all, there are plenty of splendid gardens to explore further afield in the world where the climate is more temperate, where purple orchids and orange bromeliads are in full bloom and where tropical trees such as yellow cow wood are plentiful.

Inspired by Matthew Wilson’s choices (above), I have selected tours to destinations which offer horticultural delights and sunshine – or at least milder climes – at this time of year, with a few 2017 departures in late autumn and winter.

1. Marrakesh Express

The iconic electric-blue Jardin Majorelle is filled with coconut palms, bougainvilleas and 300 other plant species from all over the world. A six-day Marrakesh and Flowers of the Atlas Mountains tour from Brightwater Holidays takes in this magnificent garden, with visits to the new Le Jardin Secret, designed by the English landscape architect Tom Stuart-Smith; the Nectarome aromatic garden; and Jnane Tamsna (or “big garden”), a private estate in the Palmeraie, where the tour is based for four nights.

From £2,595 including accommodation, most meals, flights, coach travel and garden visits. Departs April 19 and October 12 2017. Brightwater Holidays (01334 657155; brightwaterholidays.com).

2. Tantalising Tassie

A seven-day Private Gardens, Art and Taste of Tasmania tour from Botanica World Discoveries offers access to private gardens not normally open to the public. Highlights include private visits to Old Wesleydale, an English garden in Mole Creek, and the cottage gardens in the historic towns of Oatlands, Richmond and Ross.

There are also stops at public gardens, such as Corinda House with its symmetrical parterres and box hedges; Epsom House, one of Australia’s oldest mansions with beautifully designed formal gardens; and the Royal Tasmanian Botanical Gardens, which has collections dedicated to various regions of the island-state.

It’s not all horticultural attractions, though. There is a musical soirée at Epsom House, a visit to Salamanca Market and a stop at Russell Falls in Mount Field National Park.

From £1,945 including accommodation, some meals and transfers. Excludes flights. Departs November 12 2017. Botanica World Discoveries (0845 672 9501; botanicatours.com).

A photo posted by Ambi Bambi (@amberdavis333) on Sep 26, 2016 at 10:46pm PDT

3. California Dreamin’

Santa Barbara is often hailed as the American Riviera – and it’s easy to see why. Framed by the San Ynez mountains, this seaside city has been blessed with striking good looks as well as year-round sunshine. Thanks to its Mediterranean-style weather, many plants from around the world flourish here, from roses to cacti. The city is home to world-class gardens, including Lotusland and Santa Barbara Botanical Gardens.

Tauck is offering a 12-day California’s Gold Coast tour, which spends two days in Santa Barbara. While not strictly speaking a horticultural holiday, it provides ample time to explore the gardens on your own.

Other highlights include a walking tour with a naturalist in Morro Bay and a park stay at Yosemite.

From £3,670 including accommodation, most meals and transfers. Excludes flights. Departures between April and October 2017. Tauck (0800 810 8020; tauck.co.uk).

4. Tropical Singapore

Set in a colonial-era landscape harking back to its inauguration as an ornamental park in 1859, Singapore Botanic Gardens now claims to be the most visited botanical garden in the world. A half-day Singapore Botanic Gardens tour from Viator starts at the Swan Lake to view its special feature: a large group of mighty Nibong palms (Oncosperma tigillarium). Then it’s off to see the delectable Vanda “Miss Joaquim”, Singapore’s national flower, with time to marvel at the tropical rainforests, the palm valley and an orchid garden laid out in four colour zones.

From £37.36 for a half-day guided tour, with several daily departures. Viator (020 3478 5933; viator.com).

Singapore Botanic Gardens

5. Wildflowers of South Africa

Led by Anne Swithinbank, a broadcaster and Radio 4 Gardeners’ Question Time panellist, this 14-day Wildflowers of South Africa trip from Telegraph Tours is timed to coincide with one of the natural wonders of the world, the annual wildflower displays of Namaqualand. There are visits to the West Coast National Park and Ramskop Nature Reserve. But of course, the gardens remain the stars of the show, with private guided tours of Kirstenbosch, Harold Porter National Botanical Garden, Hantam garden and Stellenberg Gardens, as well as the Kokerboom Nursery and Nieuwoudtville – known as the world’s bulb capital.

From £3,890 full-board including flights, garden tours and a private dinner and Q&A with Anne Swithinbank. August 20 2017. Telegraph Tours (0330 029 7023; telegraph.co.uk/tt-wildflowers).

The annual wildflower displays of Namaqualand Credit: FRANK SCHROEDER

6. Madeira: the floating garden

The magnificent island of Madeira is a floral paradise, where native plants sit alongside cultivated ornamentals and crop plants. An eight-day Gardens and Plants of Madeira tour from HF Holidays takes in a mix of smaller as well as larger gardens, with a chance to see exotic flowers native to Madeira in the beautiful Quinta Palmeira. Other highlights include the Monte Palace Tropical Gardens, the Flower Festival of Funchal and excursions to see plants in the countryside.

From £1,009 half-board, including flights and admission to gardens. Departs May 1 2017. HF Holidays (0345 470 8558; hfholidays.co.uk).

Quinta do Palheiro, Madeira Credit: ALAMY

7. Cherry blossoms of Japan

March and early April are arguably the best (though admittedly, busiest) times to visit Japan, when pale pink cherry blossoms come out in full bloom. A 13-day Cherry Blossom Festival trip from On the Go Tours visits Japan during sakura season and spends time taking in the nation’s wonderful gardens. First stop is Hamarikyu teien, a tranquil garden in the heart of Tokyo, not too far from Ginza shopping district. After time in the capital and the mountain cities of Matsumoto and Takayama, the tour spends a few days in Kanazawa to visit Kenroku-en, one of Japan’s most splendid gardens, lined with flowering trees, water features and teahouses. Other highlights include the farmhouses at Hida Folk Village and a chance to witness the spring geisha dances in Kyoto.

From £3,885 including accommodation, some meals and local transport. Excludes flights. Departures between March 2017 and March 2018. On the Go Tours (020 7371 1113; onthegotours.com).

8. Gran Canaria’s mountain flowers

Based in a four-star beachfront hotel in Las Palmas, this eight-day Plants and Landscapes tour from Saga goes in search of mountain flowers in Gran Canaria. Days are spent exploring the island’s flora at delightful gardens, including a cactus garden, a botanical garden which cascades down terraced slopes, and the exotic Jardin de la Marquesa where a small lake is encircled by hibiscus, jasmine and dragon trees.

From £949 half-board including flights, two botanical talks and garden visits. January 30 2017. Saga (0800 300500; travel.saga.co.uk).

9. Glories of New Zealand

New Zealand has magnificent landscapes and flora whichever way you turn, from the epic vistas of Milford Sound to the remarkable botanical gardens of its cities. A 23-day Gardens of New Zealand tour from RHS Garden Holidays stops at Auckland, Rotorua, New Plymouth, Wellington, Nelson, Christchurch, Mount Cook, Queenstown, Milford Sound, Dunedin and the Otago region.

Led by garden historian Caroline Holmes, this trip takes in Ayrlies in Auckland, viewed as one of the most quintessential of New Zealand gardens; Pukeiti in New Plymouth, which boasts the largest collection of rhododendrons in the country; and a stopover in Singapore for a visit to the Singapore Botanic Gardens.

From £6,395 including accommodation, some meals, flights and garden visits. January 17 2017. RHS Garden Holidays (020 3735 1855; rhs.org.uk/shop/rhs-garden-holidays).

Gardens in Queenstown Credit: dpe123 - Fotolia

10. Sri Lanka’s new groove

Naturetrek is offering a 13-day celebration of Sri Lanka’s tropical flora and botanical gardens, featuring both endemic species as well as flora from all around the globe. Starting in Colombo, this Sri Lanka’s Tropical Flora tour heads to Sigiriya to the Sinharaja Forest via Kandy and then back to Colombo in search of orchids, spices and cloud forest ferns. There is also a visit to the Peradeniya Botanic Gardens near Kandy, which spans 147 acres lined with coco de mer palms, scarlet poinsettias and an impressively huge Javan fig tree.

From £2,295 full-board including flights. March 18 2017. Naturetrek (01962 733051; naturetrek.co.uk).