You’ve decided to grow a beard this fall — good for you, buddy! But hold on a second, whether you’re doing it for #movember, for better Tinder pics, or to keep your face warm this winter, you will definitely run into some snags as your new beard grows in. So don’t be surprised if your face reacts badly to the change and you end up with some gnarly beard-related acne. This follicular side effect is gross, can be painful, and is unfortunately very common. But the good news is, there’s a perfectly easy solution to your pimple problem. We asked Evan Rieder MD, FAAD, a general and cosmetic dermatologist and an Assistant Professor of Dermatology at NYU Medical Center, why guys break out when they grow a beard and how to avoid it in the future. Here’s what he said:

“We often see an increase in acne and ingrown hairs (which may look like acne bumps) when men grow a beard or move from a clean shave to an unshaven look. The reasons for this are multifactorial, but most relate to hygiene. Men tend to negate beard grooming, and beard hair can collect a lot of debris and bacteria that can predispose to the development of acne.”

Translation:

During the day, your facial hair collects dust, dirt, and bacteria that can cause pimples. If you don’t wash your beard that pimple causing bacteria thrives.

Everything You Need To Take Care Of Your Beard

“To help prevent and treat facial hair related pimples, men should wash their beard twice daily with a facial cleanser, switch pillowcases every few days, and pay better attention to grooming. Particularly in people with curly hair, short beard hair can grow back into the skin and cause a foreign-body response, which can lead to the development of red and painful bumps that look like acne. The body actually reacts to its own hair as something foreign, and mounts an immune response to it. We see less of these foreign-body responses once the beard is longer, however acne can still be a problem if the hygiene is poor. If these methods don’t work, then a dermatologist can prescribe antibiotic treatments that may help keep acne at bay. If these problems persist despite medical therapy, laser therapy is a good way to remove problematic areas of hair that repeatedly cause bumps.”

Plan of Attack: