PA Marks and Spencer will shut 60 clothing and home stores

The retailer said the UK closures come as part of an overhaul which will affect around 100 stores as it looks to cut back on clothing and home while boosting its Simply Food chain. Details of the restructure came as it said underlying pre-tax profits fell 18.6 per cent to £231.3 million in the six months to October 1, while bottom-line profits crashed 88.4 per cent to £25.1 million. Chief executive Steve Rowe also outlined plans to shut 53 stores across 10 international markets - including 10 in China and seven in France, while pulling out of Belgium, Estonia, Hungary and Lithuania - putting around 2,100 jobs at risk. M&S said it will close around 30 of its 304 full-line stores - selling clothing and home as well as food - and downsize or replace around 45 shops to Simply Food outlets.

It will also relocate some other outlets, while opening other stores in so-called under-served areas. The group remained tight-lipped on the number of UK staff impacted by the plans, but said that, where possible, it would keep "job continuity" for affected employees. The group insisted it would have more stores overall after the revamp, with already-announced aims to open more than 200 Simply Food outlets by the end of the 2018/19 financial year.

Over the next five years we will transform our UK estate with around 60 fewer clothing and home stores, whilst continuing to increase the number of our Simply Food stores Marks and Spencer chief executive Steve Rowe

Mr Rowe, who took over from Dutchman Marc Bolland in April, said: "Over the next five years we will transform our UK estate with around 60 fewer clothing and home stores, whilst continuing to increase the number of our Simply Food stores. "In the future, we will have more inspiring stores in places where customers want to shop." He added: "These are tough decisions, but vital to building a future M&S that is simpler, more relevant, multi-channel and focused on delivering sustainable returns."

PA Chief executive Steve Rowe also outlined plans to shut 53 stores abroad

The latest restructure moves come as M&S revealed more sales falls in its embattled clothing division, with like-for-like sales down by 5.9 per cent in the first half. But it narrowed the sales decline from 8.9 per cent in the first quarter - its worst performance for a decade - to 2.9 per cent in the second quarter. Same-store food sales fell 0.9 per cent over the half-year, while it saw growth of 0.3 per cent at M&S.com, leaving overall UK like-for-like sales 3 per cent lower. Mr Rowe said the group did not have a full list of outlets closing, adding that it would look at the overhaul on a "store-by-store" basis over the next five years. He said M&S will have less space, but more stores as part of a "rebalancing". "This is not about the M&S brand disappearing. We will be in more locations in the future," he added. The group said the UK restructuring will cost it around £350 million over five years.

PA Mr Rowe said the group did not have a full list of outlets closing

M&S will also close loss-making owned businesses across 10 international markets at a cost of £150 million to £200 million over the next year. The firm currently has 468 overseas stores across 58 international markets, with 194 owned stores and 274 franchise stores. Mr Rowe - a company veteran with 26 years' service - is leading a shake-up to turn around its clothing arm and get group profits back on track. He has already axed 525 jobs at the retailer's head office in a bid to cut costs in August. The group said on announcing half-year results that its profit margins will take a hit from the sharp falls in the pound since the Brexit vote. But it said it would continue to cut prices across its clothing lines and in its food arm as it looks to ramp up sales.

Alexa Chung at London Fashion Week Sun, February 22, 2015 Say Cheese. Style Guru Alexa Chung is capturing the moment at London Fashion Week Play slideshow Squirrel / Splash News 1 of 15 Alexa Chung London Fashion Week

M&S has seen its position shift from a retailer able to attract all age groups to a place seen by younger consumers as catering primarily for older generations - despite glamorous advertising campaigns and, most recently, two well-received collections from model Alexa Chung based on the store's fashion archive. Commentators say younger shoppers are being lured away by competitors which are cheaper, faster and more aspirational. Meanwhile the so-called fast fashion retailers like Primark and H&M have improved their quality and a new category of "grown-up" stores such as Reiss and Cos and have emerged. Customers have also complained that they are confused amid racks of clothing divided into various brands but with little indication as to what separates one from another, and that items singled out by fashion experts - and there are many such pieces in every collection - are difficult to find within cluttered stores, if they have not already sold out.

PA Marks and Spencer bosses warned of more than 2,100 job losses

Other grumbles have also referred to too few shop assistants on hand to help navigate the racks and offer guidance on styling. Earlier this year, Mr Rowe announced that the "neglected" Mrs M&S was at the centre of plans to turn around his store's fortunes, saying he planned to "celebrate and cherish" the "loyal" army of women shoppers aged 50 and over - who have proved to be not quite so loyal after all. M&S knows its average customer is female, in her 50s, and shops with the group 18 times a year.