GETTY Matt Dawson with his wife Carolin and son Sami

Watching his two little boys running red-faced around the garden, laughing as they throw leaves at each other, former England rugby captain Matt Dawson is the picture of fatherly pride. He clearly adores being a dad but after almost losing his younger son, Sami, to a rare strain of meningitis earlier this year, his happy family life is something he certainly doesn’t take for granted. Sami suddenly fell ill in February, only weeks after celebrating his second birthday. He spent a fortnight fighting for his life in intensive care at Great Ormond Street Hospital after contracting Men W, a strain of meningitis most commonly associated with young people, mainly students. Luckily, Sami now appears to have made a full recovery but his son’s illness is something Matt, 44, will never forget.

Meningitis is the inflammation of the lining of the brain and the spinal cord and septicaemia is the blood poisoning form of the illness. According to the Meningitis Research Foundation, 3,200 cases of meningitis and septicaemia occur in the UK each year. A tenth of these turn out to be fatal and a quarter of all survivors are left with life-altering repercussions. Having witnessed how devastating the illness can be first hand, former scrum-half Matt is now desperate to raise public awareness of meningitis and together with pharmaceutical firm GlaxoSmithKline, has launched Tackle Meningitis, a campaign that is backed by the Meningitis Research Foundation and Meningitis Now.

I wish I had known more about meningitis and what to look out for before Sami got ill Former rugby player Matt Dawson

Its aims are twofold: to make people more familiar with the early symptoms of meningitis and aware that there are different strains of the disease. “I wish I had known more about meningitis and what to look out for before Sami got ill,” admits Matt, who also has a four-year-old son, Alex, with his wife Carolin, 31, a former model. “People tend to think of the ‘tumbler test’ but before a rash there are other less well-known symptoms such as fever, vomiting, headache, limb pain, pale skin, cold hands and feet, quick breathing, neck stiffness and aversion to light.”

Looking back, Matt can see that Sami had almost all of those early symptoms. Yet when he woke up hot and uncharacteristically grumpy on that February morning, he and Carolin assumed their son had a bad cold or virus and gave him paracetamol. Throughout the course of the day, Sami’s symptoms became more worrying. He was sick, drowsy and had what appeared to be a small seizure, something he had experienced with a temperature in the past. By mid-afternoon, he also had a very faint rash on his stomach. Concerned, Matt called his private doctor, who was unable to see Sami for a few hours and advised Matt to take him to A&E. By the time he was examined at Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, only minutes after arriving, the very faint rash, which Matt and Carolin had assumed was a heat rash, had become something more obvious and within minutes Sami was being pumped full of antibiotics and put into an induced coma. “We were told he most probably had meningitis and we both felt complete disbelief,” says Matt.

GETTY The tumbler test is used to indentify meningitis when rashes appear

“We just hadn’t realised how ill he was.” Over the next few hours, Sami was transferred to Great Ormond Street Hospital and with friends and family helping out with Alex, Matt and Carolin were able to stay by their desperately sick son’s side. “When we arrived at Great Ormond Street a doctor told me that the next 48 hours were crucial and I just kept thinking: ‘Is our son going to die?’” says Matt. “The doctors couldn’t give us any real hope and simply told us: ‘It’s up to Sami now’.” By then the lesions covering Sami’s body made it obvious he was suffering from meningitis and blood tests later revealed he had Men W. This strain is on the rise, from 22 cases in 2009 to more than 200 in the last 12 months, according to figures from the Meningitis Research Foundation. As with many parents, Matt and Carolin had assumed their son was protected from the disease as he’d had the Men C vaccination as a baby. However Sami had not had the Men B jab (which offers some protection against Men W) as it was not given to babies in the UK until this year.

GETTY Matt is a former England captain who played scrum-half

“All we could do was wait, which made me feel so helpless,” recalls Matt, his voice trembling slightly. “We just stayed by Sami’s side, reading to him in case he could hear us. It was almost impossible to process the fact that our little boy’s life hung in the balance and there was nothing I could do.” Fortunately Sami rallied and five days into the illness Matt and Carolin were told he had turned a corner. The next day he was brought out of his coma and although very weak, he still managed to speak. “It was amazing,” says Matt. “We were so incredibly lucky.” After a further eight days in hospital, Sami was allowed home to recover and luckily hasn’t been left with any side-effects. Since Sami’s illness the whole family has been vaccinated against Men W.

GETTY Matt wishes he had known more about the early symptoms of the disease