GETTY James Walker is helping you resolve your consumer complaints

Telecoms - do fewer complaints mean there's less to complain about? If there's one huge monthly outlay for many of us, it's paying for our TV services, landline phones and mobiles and broadband internet.

I always remind people that they have far more power than they assume James Walker

All of these forms of communication are so crucial to the way we live our daily lives but they don't come cheap. They probably represent one of the largest chunks of monthly expenditure after our mortgage/rent and electricity/gas bills. And given how much money we are paying for all of these packages, we shouldn't ever have to put up with problems. Resolver.co.uk users regularly get in touch to tell me about issues they are suffering with bad connections, poor customer service or their bills and packages going up in price.

GETTY So many people are put off raising issues because they see it as wasting time

On the flip side there was actually a recent report from UK communications regulator Ofcom that showed a decline in the number of complaints made between April and June 2016 about these sort of providers. But to me that doesn't necessarily mean there is less to complain about. It may simply mean people aren't taking the time to complain, or are finding it hard to do so. I know from experience - ever since we launched Resolver to make complaining easier - that so many people are put off raising issues because they see it as wasting time, impossible to get satisfaction from big businesses and also complicated to do. And if anyone has ever waited on hold for ages or searched fruitlessly for the right email address to contact, you'll know the frustrations that can be involved. That's exactly why we exist, to get around those problems and make life simpler for everyone with an issue to raise.

GETTY 'I always remind people that they have far more power than they assume'

Our free and independent template emails do just that and we can see the benefit clearly during 2016 so far. Users of Resolver.co.uk have taken the time to raise 2,600+ issues about TV providers, 2,500+ relating to landline phones, 18,000+ about mobile networks and 14,000+ regarding internet and broadband. I always remind people that they have far more power than they assume. Big companies can only continue to be big companies if they have customers.. And no-one wants to lose customers due to bad service. And often the only time they hear or know about bad service is when people like you get in touch with them to tell them about it. So what can you do to help with that? Here's some of my key tips for dealing with communications providers when you have a problem.

Make it clear you may leave Don't wait until the last minute. Know when your contract is up - put it in a diary or calendar - and tell your provider you are thinking of leaving them. They won't want to hear that. But you have no reason to stay loyal unless they are loyal to you back with a decent deal renewal. Usually they will offer you some good reasons to stay a customer, especially if you provide quotes from competitors and ask them to match the prices. However, and this is key, you don't have to accept their first offer. Even if they say it is the best possible price they can give you, it isn't always. Always keep negotiating until YOU are happy. Compare all the alternatives Every month, Resolver.co.uk publishes a list of the top companies for customer service to help people like you know which are the best businesses to buy from. This allows you to go off, search out other deals and decide which is right for you based on price, reviews, customer feedback and our own independent chart. There's so much competition out there today that you can sometimes find the same deal, or nearly as good, by switching provider. And that's never as much hassle these days as you believe it to be. Besides, if you can get more for your money as a 'new' customer elsewhere, then it makes total sense even if it means a few days of disruption and some phone calls and forms. That's the only way bad businesses begin to shape up, when they realise they are losing custom.

GETTY Never be afraid to tell a company if you are not experiencing good enough service