GETTY The NHS is going through a crisis with its emergency services

We all have loved ones who would not be with us today without the hard work of its dedicated staff, from the receptionist to the neurologist. The NHS’s principle of care that is free at the point of delivery is the cornerstone of a compassionate society but it can only remain that way if it works. In just eight months almost 80,000 people who needed the help of our emergency services found that they were unable to get through to 999, a figure that has almost doubled in a year. That desperate people have found their calls unanswered is disgraceful.

Call handlers, who are dealing with nine million calls each year, are dangerously under-resourced. If we do not support them they cannot support us. If this continues the story of Eddie Corley’s struggle to reach help for his injured wife June could become all too familiar. When it comes to emergency care, people’s lives must never be left to chance and no one should find themselves in a life-threatening situation based on a post-code lottery. This is an issue that could affect every one of us – 999 is a number you never want to use but are always glad to know it is there. We must work to make sure that this service, which we have always been able to rely upon, remains available to anyone who requires it across the country. ———————————————————

GETTY The British naval fleet is the smallest it has ever been in history

Remember when planners swore that the future of warfare would be short, sharp, shock-tactics and “asymmetrical warfare” became a byword for slashing conventional forces? You should – it was only six years ago. And it’s clearer than ever that other nations weren’t using the same script. Britain pulled tanks out of Germany, axed Nimrod maritime spy planes and shrunk the Royal Navy to its smallest size in history, believing that they wouldn’t be needed to fight jihadis in Iraq, Syria or Afghanistan. Meanwhile Russia became the world’s fourth largest defence spender, investing a whopping 7.5 per cent of its GDP to revamp its creaking hardware.

GETTY Britain needs to expand its fleet and restore it to its former glory

Vladimir Putin is an ex-KGB chief intent on reliving past glories. Despite Crimea and Syria, Russia’s real aim – like China, also ramping up its navy – is to become a great maritime power. And the jewel in the crown is its submarine fleet. True, Britain is awaiting two new aircraft carriers but only one will be used at any one time. When it comes to maritime presence, quantity trumps quality.We need more destroyers and frigates – and the sailors to crew them. The days when Britannia ruled the waves may be gone but, with the US focused on potential naval conflict with China, never has the need to invest in our Senior Service been more urgent. ———————————————————

GETTY The Royal heartthrob met Megan Markle in Canada