“Only if you call me ‘Beachie’,” I replied, so with that settled, the interview began.

“Lady Calpurnia,” I began, after tugging a forelock in the timehonoured fashion. But she made a dismissive hand gesture and insisted that I call her “Callie”.

This is the first time since the post of Royal Blue Permanent was created in the 16th century that the incumbent has granted an interview to the press and we are honoured that she has chosen the Beachcomber column to do so.

“Perhaps,” I suggested, “you could start by giving a brief account of the history and duties of Royal Blue Permanent.”

“I’d be delighted to,” she said. “The post was created by Queen Elizabeth in 1573 after she is said to have thrown a regal tantrum after losing her quill pen. She was calmed down by her main grammatical advisor, the Apostropher Royal, who suggested that a cupboard should be built to house the royal quill, ink and ‘anye thyng else Her Majestie’s calligraphic needes may require’. The Royal Stationery Cupboard was then constructed and the post of Keeper of the Cupboard created.

“Originally the duties of that post mainly comprised the plucking, selection and sharpening of goose quills and the topping up of ink wells but later responsibilities were added as further stationery items became available.”

“So where does the post of Royal Blue Permanent come in?” I asked.

“I was coming to that,” she said. “By 1786, the activities of the Keeper of the Stationery Cupboard had become so numerous that it became necessary to set up Her Majesty’s Stationery Office to handle its commercial side. To appease the Keeper of the Cupboard, the additional role of Royal Blue Permanent was added to his responsibilities, particularly with regard to parliamentary matters.”

“Parliamentary matters?” I queried.

“Yes,” she confirmed. “These are manifold, though two of them are particularly essential to preserve the smooth running of the state. First, the Cupboard is where the portfolio that the Minister Without Portfolio doesn’t have is kept securely, and secondly, it houses the Grey Stick which is only ever seen at the royal opening of Parliament where it is carried by Grey Stick in Waiting in case Black Rod forgets to bring his Black Rod.”

“These are vital responsibilities,” I agreed, “so why has your role been kept so secret until now?”

“The very existence of the Cupboard became a state secret in 1649 when if was briefly used to store the head of the recently executed Charles I while Cromwell decided what to do with it. Shortly after that however the Great Cupboard Feud broke out between Royal Blue Permanent and the Master of Furnishings, Fixtures and Fittings.”

To be continued tomorrow.