GETTY Republican nominee Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton

Doom-sayers in the United States are out of the same box as the moaners in Britain who continue to predict that Brexit means Wrecksit. Supposing he becomes president, the moment Trump sits at his desk in the Oval Office will be intensely sobering. “Gee, I really am the most powerful man in the universe,” he will say and perhaps for the first time in his life he will be terrified.

Because, as a predecessor Harry Truman observed: “The buck stops here.” Yes I know it was Truman who used the atomic bomb but that was before anyone else had it.

Actually the more I think about it President Trump sounds like a pretty good idea Peter Hill

Even if Trump has a rush of blood, picks up the phone and orders World War Three, a vast braking system will begin. Think of Sir Humphrey then multiply by a hundred. But it won’t happen because The Donald isn’t stupid. Actually the more I think about it President Trump sounds like a pretty good idea. For a start he would be a far greater friend to Britain than devious Hillary Clinton. And mutually admiring Trump and Putin are a marriage waiting to happen. --------------------------

GETTY Ukip leader Nigel Farage

A deeply worrying word is creeping into the Brexit debate: “advisory.” It was always there in the small print but now the High Court has put it at the centre and even Nigel Farage seems to accept that the referendum vote is only advice from the voters and not a binding instruction. It’s unlikely that MPs will stop the process of withdrawal from the EU because the nation has spoken in the most democratic way possible but the Brexit that emerges could be very far from the complete break envisaged by voters. The tiny consensus that controls politics and the law share one belief above everything: that they know best. --------------------------

GETTY Jade Ewen and Zumba instructor Vicky Zagarra do Zumba moves

The Roman Empire was killed by decadence and the same goes for Britain. Soon the process will be complete. That’s the message from the news that team sports at exclusive Wellington College are no longer compulsory and instead pupils can take Zumba lessons. I’m sure Zumba is a very energetic dance but it doesn’t live up to the idea that the battle of Waterloo, one of the greatest team efforts in history, was won on the playing fields of Eton. In another example of decline homework has been scrapped at a primary school in Fort William after a poll by pupils and parents. Children are expected to spend homework time reading books, magazines and comics. Or more likely devoting the entire evening to computer games and chatting on social media. --------------------------

GETTY The triple lock state pension which guarantees maximum inflation proofing is in danger

The triple lock state pension which guarantees maximum inflation proofing is in danger. A Work and Pensions Committee report saying the system is unaffordable is just the latest in a growing climate of opinion that the old are pampered at the expense of the young. What a joke. Anyone who thinks life on the old-age pension is a luxury holiday can’t have shopped for groceries or paid a gas bill within the past few decades. The state pension is not a benefit. In most cases it is a hard-earned right for a lifetime of work and tax. The same Labour-led committee also wants winter fuel allowances and free travel passes to be means-tested, neglecting the fact that 40 or 50 years of PAYE more than pays for such scraps. Britain has one of the poorest pension systems in the civilised world and now that repeated tax attacks have virtually wiped out the private pension system the state handout is more important than ever. The over-60s also vote. Or do politicians think we should lose that right too? --------------------------

GETTY Litter on the street next to a bus stop

On my usual Sunday morning walk to the park I had to negotiate a trail of broken glass and rubbish. Then it dawned on me that the big firework display had happened the night before, supposedly a family occasion but from the debris a battle between armies of yobs. The same goes for New Year’s Eve and I will never forget the carnage left after the Millennium celebrations. These occasions have become an excuse for disgusting behaviour and violence. A crying shame. --------------------------

GETTY ‘Smart motorways have resulted in a massive increase in fines’, says Peter Hill

So-called smart motorways with variable speed limits and average speed checks have resulted in a massive increase in fines. At the same time traffic is slowing down, reaching just 13.7mph on London’s M25 at peak times. Cycling would be quicker. Local authorities are also planning draconian penalties on diesel-powered vehicles and company car drivers are facing a huge increase in tax. Cameras spy on us. Everyone I know complains that journeys are taking longer what with endless roadworks and cycle lanes. Supposed improvements seem calculated to make motorised transport more and more intolerable. No one voted for this process of outlawing cars or was consulted. We can’t be trusted. --------------------------