EXPRESS.CO.UK The new Apple MacBook 2016 doesn't feature a touchscreen

Apple finally lifted the lid on its all-new Macbook at a major event in Cupertino last week. This powerful new laptop is packed with upgrades including a faster processor, brighter display and much slimmer design. However, unlike most of its rivals, one thing that Apple has decided not to include is an interactive touchscreen. Instead, the US tech firm has opted for a unique Touch Bar which replaces the function keys that usually run across the top of the MacBook Pro keyboard. Featuring a clever multi-touch Retina display, the Touch Bar changes to the app you're using – bringing interactive ways to adjust or browse through content. For example, loading the Safari web browser triggers the Touch Bar to summon a slew of helpful shortcuts, including on-screen buttons to load new tabs, search the page, or refresh the page.

APPLE

GETTY Apple VP of marketing, Philip Schiller, revealed why there's no touchscreen on the new MacBook

Now Apple's Senior Vice President of Worldwide Marketing, Philip Schiller, has revealed why the company has avoided a touchscreen. Speaking to the Independent Schiller said: "The Mac from the very first has had a menu bar fixed at the top. It’s core to the identity and the experience you get. But iOS doesn’t have a menu at the top. It never will. "The thought of pointing at a menu at the top of an iPhone feels wrong. "If you made the Mac a touchscreen you’d have to figure out how to make it a good experience with your finger on a touchscreen. "Trust me, we’ve looked at that — it’s a bad experience. It’s not as good or as intuitive as with a mouse and trackpad."

Apple MacBook Pro 2016 Launch Event Thu, October 27, 2016 Apple is holding its third product launch of 2016, and has unveiled three new MacBook Pros and a major update to Apple TV. Play slideshow GETTY 1 of 18 Apple MacBook Pro 2016 Launch Event

Although many have been critical that Apple hasn't included a touchscreen the tech firm may have a point. Microsoft unveiled its Surface Book laptop in the UK earlier this year which features a detachable touchscreen. It's clever stuff, but having tested this ultimate portable Windows PC earlier this year, Express.co.uk soon became hugely frustrated with the experience. Along with the bizarre gap that's created between the keyboard and the display. There’s also the matter of the annoying bounce whenever you use the Surface Book’s touchscreen in laptop mode. With a touch display you're also left with a screen covered in fingerprints.

EXPRESS.CO.UK The Surface Book's touchscreen has an irritating wobble

If you made the Mac a touchscreen you’d have to figure out how to make it a good experience Philip Schiller, Apple's Senior Vice President of Worldwide Marketing

Apple's products have always been about the user experience and producing the Touch Bar makes the new MacBook more interactive without compromising the design. Taking about this new technology, Schiller revealed: "It’s part of our thinking about where to take the notebook next. "Others are trying to turn the notebook into the tablet. The new MacBook Pro is a product that celebrates that it is a notebook, this shape that has been with us for the last 25 years is probably going to be with us for another 25 years because there’s something eternal about the basic notebook form factor. "The team came up with this idea that you can create a multi-touch surface that’s coplanar with the keyboard and the trackpad but brings a whole new experience into it, one that’s more interactive, with multi-touch."