GETTY Samsung's Gear S3 is much, much bulkier than its predecessor

Samsung is clearly feeling pretty confident about its latest smartwatch, the Gear S3. The South Korean company has slapped a hefty £349 price tag on its latest wearable device, which we weren't too impressed with during our hands-on time back in September. Meanwhile, rival Apple – who at one time had the most expensive smartwatch on-sale – now sells a variation of the Apple Watch for £269. The Apple Watch Series 1 starts from £269 for the 38mm case, and £299 42mm case. Although it sports the same dual-core processor as the Apple Watch Series 2, the entry-level wearable is not waterproof to 50metres, nor does it have an in-built GPS. Samsung finally started to take orders for its highly-anticipated Gear S3 smartwatch last week – some 60 days after the company first unveiled the gadget timepiece on-stage at the IFA consumer technology tradeshow in Berlin.

Samsung Gear S3 Frontier, Gear S3 Classic Smartwatch – In Pictures Tue, August 30, 2016 SAMSUNG has revealed it's new Gear S3 Classic and Frontier smartwatches at the IFA consumer technology show, in Berlin. Play slideshow Aaron Brown 1 of 12 Samsung's new Gear S3 Classic and Frontier smartwatch

Following on from the success of the Gear S2, the next-generation Samsung wearable comes in two new styles, dubbed Frontier and Classic. Frontier has been designed to act as both a fitness-minded watch, as well as a leisure wearable. Meanwhile, the Classic variation “pays homage to the minimalist, elegant style found in the most iconic timepieces,” according to Samsung. Both variants of the tech timepiece keep the same spinning bezel mechanism that made the Gear S2 such a departure from other smartwatches. "Whether you thirst for adventure, or prefer a more classic design, both are the perfect blend of form and function," the South Korean firm teases on its website. "Welcome to a new generation of smartwatches."

GETTY The Gear S3 Frontier is not designed for smaller wrists, where it looks a little ridiculous

Both the Gear S3 Frontier and Gear S3 Classic for £349 through its online store. Unlike last year, the Gear S3 is now compatible with any standard 22mm watch band, so owners can quickly swap-out and customise their device, without being beholden to a single manufacturer, like some rival wearables. Samsung has also increased the size of the battery (upping the battery life to a staggering four days) and included a GPS to give the smartwatch more autonomy from your paired Android phone. Unfortunately these internal refinements come hand-in-hand with a number of unwelcome changes to the design – and size – of the Gear smartwatch range. The Gear S3 Classic and Frontier are both incredibly large, bulky devices.

EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS Even the largest Apple Watch, at 42mm, looks small in comparison to the Gear S3

EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS Gear S3 has a number of awesome new features, but each has added bulk to the smartwatch

Samsung has ditched the understated, compact design it employed with the Gear S2 in favour of a bigger battery, larger display and GPS chipset. Here’s the thing – we’re not sure it is worth the trade-off. For one thing, the latest iteration of the Samsung Gear smartwatch now appears to only target a male audience. The South Korean firm says that’s by design, since its research shows 80 per cent of smartwatch owners are men. But that trend quickly becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy when the only accomplished smartwatches on the market are swollen wrist-behemoths, like the Gear S3 Frontier. And even amongst the target audience, the chunky Gear S3 series will only appeal to those looking for a large watch.

GETTY Samsung Gear S3 sold-out online earlier this month