During a debate in the Lords Baroness Bakewell of Hardington, a Liberal Democrat peer, highlighted concerns that have been raised by Steve Webb, who served as a pensions minister under the Coalition.

She said: "This is also an excellent opportunity to mention concerns that we have about cold calling and pension scams.

"I know that my colleague Steve Webb, the previous Pensions Minister, was also worried about this development.

"When we get to Committee we will probe the Government on their latest thinking on pension scams. In the meantime, I would welcome the Minister’s views at this stage."

Lord Yong replied: "She and other noble Lords asked about cold calling and scams. I understand that there will be an announcement in a few weeks’ time.

"At this stage, I can say no more than that, but I hope it will meet the expectations that have been aroused during this debate."

Baroness Altmann, a former Conservative pensions minister, said: "I'm delighted, it is a no brainer. The Government should be protecting people and sending a clear message that anyone trying to cold call you is not working in your interests and you need to hang up."

Mr Webb said: "The Minister's comments are the clearest sign yet the Government is starting to listen on this important issue.

"If the Chancellor was to use his Autumn Statement to announce a ban on cold-calling with early implementation this would be very welcome and would help to protect savers from unscrupulous scammers." A government spokesperson said:

“We are determined to tackle the scourge of nuisance calls especially those of a fraudulent nature. We take the issue of pension scams, and the targeting of vulnerable people through cold calls, very seriously and are currently considering ways to protect consumers from pension scammers."

A Government spokesman said: “We are determined to tackle the scourge of nuisance calls especially those of a fraudulent nature. We take the issue of pension scams, and the targeting of vulnerable people through cold calls, very seriously and are currently considering ways to protect consumers from pension scammers."