REUTERS/PA Jeremy Corbyn has vowed to block Brexit unless Theresa May agrees to his demands

The beleaguered Labour leader pounced on the ruling of three judges that Article 50 can only be triggered by the House of Commons to issue an extraordinary four-point blackmail note to the prime minister. In a bombshell intervention the unpopular left-winger said Mrs May will have to accept his demands or face a backbench rebellion which would force her to call a snap general election. Mr Corbyn is insisting that Britain maintains access to the single market, guarantees all EU workers' rights, keeps Brussels laws on consumers and the environment and agrees to pay for any EU capital investment lost by Brexit.

If Mrs May refuses to accede to all four demands in a binding parliamentary law, he has vowed to build a cabal of Labour, Green, SNP and Remain-backing Tories to block her from activating Article 50. The breathtaking blackmail attempt was tonight set to spark fury amongst eurosceptic MPs who have warned that a europhile establishment is trying to betray the public and reverse the result of June's referendum. In a dynamite interview with the Sunday Mirror the embattled Islington MP called the four huge demands his party's “Brexit bottom lines”.

PA The Labour leader issued the PM with an extraordinary blackmail note over Article 50

YouGov Labour is headed for disaster if Mrs May calls a snap general election

He said: “These must be the basis of the negotiations. And it doesn’t necessarily cause a delay. “The court has thrown a big spanner in the works by saying Parliament must be consulted. We accept the result of the referendum. “We are not challenging the referendum. We are not calling for a second referendum. We’re calling for market access for British industry to Europe.” On whether Mrs May will accept the extraordinarily brass-necked demand, he added: “Sorry, but we live in a democracy and the Government has to be responsive to Parliament. It’s not my timetable so it’s up to her to respond.” And he was scathing of the PM's handling of the early stages of Brexit, insisting that if she listens to Labour she can get Britain's negotiating strategy back on track.

We live in a democracy and the Government has to be responsive to Parliament Jeremy Corbyn

He said: “She has set a timetable that can easily be achieved. “She just has to set out the negotiating basis which she refuses to do. “I would have set out very quickly the relationship with Europe. “It would have stemmed the run on the Pound if we had made clear we wanted to maintain market access to Europe.” Mr Corbyn's hand has been significantly strengthened by Thursday's ruling that the PM cannot use royal prerogative powers, but must instead consult parliament before activating divorce talks with Brussels. The Government has vowed to appeal the decision but legal experts have indicated it is watertight, meaning the prime minister now faces the prospect of having to get Brexit past an incredibly europhile House of Commons.

Who is Gina Miller? Thu, November 3, 2016 Gina Miller is leading the challenge that has blocked Theresa May triggering Article 50 without the consent of Parliament, take a look back at Miller's background. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 10 Gina Miller has won the case to block Theresa May from Article 50