GETTY President Erdogan has accused the European Union of funding the PKK terror group

President Erdogan has come under fire for arresting leading politicians and lawmakers from an opposition party as part of a widespread purge of all the nation’s core institutions following the violent military coup in July. The HDP, a left wing, pro-Kurdish party with strong convictions about women’s rights, saw many of its top brass rounded up and detained on Friday amid accusations that they support the armed Kurdish militia, the PKK. Britain, the EU and America send aid and arms to a Kurdish group with links to the PKK currently fighting the Islamic State terrorists in Syria and Mr Erdogan claims some of the money and weapons handed to the Kurds in Syria is being used to kill Turks by the PKK, who have committed a string of terrorist atrocities across the Middle Eastern nation.

The 62-year-old AK Parti leader said: “Europe, as a whole, is abetting terrorism. Even though they declared the PKK a terrorist organisation, this is clear. "We see how the PKK can act so freely and comfortably in Europe." But the arrests of the HDP figureheads along with nearly 110,000 other people, including top military generals, teachers and media broadcasters, has led to condemnation from many Western leaders, who fear Mr Erdogan is acting like a tin pot dictator. The United States expressed deep concern, while Germany and Denmark summoned Turkish diplomats over the Kurdish arrests and European Parliament President Martin Schulz said the actions "call into question the basis for the sustainable relationship between the EU and Turkey". The Turkish president hit back at his critics, saying: “I don't care if they call me dictator or whatever else, it goes in one ear, out the other. What matters is what my people call me.”

GETTY The Turkish President says he doesn't mind if the West call him a dictator

GETTY This is the moment a bomb goes off at a HDP rally in Dyarbakir, South Eastern Turkey

In response to the police swoop, the HDP have decided to boycott the Ankara-based parliament. HDP spokesman Ayhan Bilgen said: “After discussions with our parliamentary group and our central executive board, we have decided to halt our legislative efforts in light of everything that has happened.” Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said the HDP had been funding terrorism and that "not only those bombing and burning, but also those supporting terror" would pay the price.

The party's deputies would be betraying the people if they failed to attend parliament sessions, he said. Mr Yildirim added: “For years, we called on you to say you are against terror and terrorist organisations. You would not listen…For years, they transferred the money we sent for the municipalities to terror. "Turn back from this road while it's still possible… Come to parliament and say what you have to say.”

Turkey protests rage on Wed, June 5, 2013 Tens of thousands of Turks gather for anti-government protests. Play slideshow 1 of 17 More than 2,300 people have been injured and one person killed during four days of fierce clashes between protesters and police in Turkey