In an old BBC documentary, an even-more-youthful future Davis Cup captain Leon Smith, then coach to the Murray brothers, was sounding an earnest note of caution to camera. “The people you see on television, the top ones in the world, have worked hard all their life,” he said. “They have given up all social life, they are playing four, five, six hours a day. There is training and fitness. They see physiotherapists every day. They work with sports psychologists and they travel the world. “It is a tough life. If you want to make it, you really have to give up a lot of your life.” Thankfully, for himself and for the nation, Andy Murray was up for the challenge. Fast forward four years and Murray is “at home” in his cramped and decidedly untidy student digs at the Sanchez-Casal Tennis Academy near Barcelona.

GETTY Andy Murray beat John Isner (right) to win the Paris Masters

GETTY Andy Murray famously lost to David Nalbandian in 2005

“I like staying here,” he says. “Other places might be nicer but it reminds me I am nowhere near at the top yet. I like the fact I don’t get treated any different to anybody else.” He had already won the US Open junior championship the previous year but was just about to enter the national conscience permanently with a run to the third round of Wimbledon. Murray’s first visit to SW19 was also mine and after a thrilling Saturday afternoon five-setter against David Nalbandian, his life had changed forever. He took his final bow from the tournament that year with ignominious exit in the first round of the mixed doubles on a packed Court Three a couple of days later but already the awkward 18-year-old sensed the difference. “I wasn’t expecting so many people when I got off court,” he said. “I couldn’t move at all. I said I would try to sign everybody’s autograph and I tried to, but I couldn’t because they were all pushing. It’s a little weird.” His relationship with his public remained uneasy and a joke about supporting England’s opponents that misfired saw him retreat into his tennis as much as possible.

Wimbledon champion Andy Murray in pictures Mon, July 11, 2016 British tennis champion and world No 2 prepares for Wimbledon. Play slideshow Getty 1 of 31 Andy and Kim Murray attend the Wimbledon Winners Ball

Dismissed as too fragile to survive a five-set clash; a series of winter boot camps in Miami answered those criticisms. His fitness was in his control, and Murray fixated on becoming the most athletic player on the tour. Mental strength was harder to garner but under the tutelage of Ivan Lendl he slowly equipped himself with the tools to win the crunch points. Olympic gold in 2012 provided the final piece of the jigsaw – a belief he could win things. Three weeks after Murray had cried following defeat to Roger Federer at the Wimbledon final, the main focus of the nation had turned to the Olympic Park and the rowing lake. But those lucky enough to attend the raucous circus that sprung up on Centre Court finally saw Murray at his best, beating both Federer and Novak Djokovic to capture honour for his country as much as himself. That victory paved the way for him to end Britain’s 77-year Wimbledon hoodoo and a similar-length drought in the Davis Cup. The fact he had been born a week apart from Djokovic, though, seemed cruel barrier to that elusive no. 1 spot. Fatherhood, though, gave Murray a fresh perspective. The fact he felt he could go out and celebrate his second Wimbledon triumph with a few rare glasses of bubbly this summer – in the company of journalists, no less – showed he had finally discovered greater confidence in himself as a person. He could be his own man.

GETTY Andy Murray celebrates winning gold at the London Olympics

GETTY Andy Murray won Wimbledon for the second time earlier this year