GETTY Owen Farrell has been nominated for the player of the year award

The World Rugby awards are usually a New Zealand monopoly but for once they found themselves beaten by England when it came to names in lights yesterday. England have three nominees on the player of the year shortlist to New Zealand’s two which, with Eddie Jones up for coach of the year and his Grand Slam winners in the running for the team gong, indicates who are the coming side in the world game. To put this into context, England have only had two players – Owen Farrell in 2012 and Tom Croft in 2009 – nominated in the 12 years since they won the World Cup. Maro Itoje could even become the first man to land an historic double at the awards ceremony in London next Sunday as he is up for breakthrough player too. Such adulation brings with it the possibility of heads being turned – the average age of the nominated trio is only 23 – but England scrum-half Ben Youngs is adamant minds will remain firmly fixed on this weekend’s game against bogey team South Africa.

GETTY Maro Itoje has been recognised for his fine performances for Saracens and England

“The boys have a focus on now being the time for us. We’ve got to crack on and keep moving forward. There’s absolutely no chance of complacency from the side,” said Youngs. “No one in the side has ever beaten South Africa and it’s something we all want to experience. We feel like the time is now to try to get rid of the last ten years and get a win against them this weekend.” Itoje is out of action for the Old Mutual Wealth Series with a broken hand so it was with some relief that England were yesterday able to confirm the availability of Courtney Lawes, along with Mako Vunipola. Lawes, who will win his 50th cap, has shaken off a knee problem to fill the dual role of chief lineout target and destructive defence missile against South Africa. The physical side of a match-up which has proved beyond England for a decade is the struggling Springboks’ one trump card and the emphasis in training this week has been to ensure the home side can negate it.

GETTY Billy Vunipola has enjoyed a fine year for England and Saracens

“Whenever I have played them I have never felt that we have been outclassed, more physically beaten up,” said Youngs, who has been involved in five of the defeats. “I’ve never come off the field feeling there’s a massive gap. I’ve just felt that whenever we’ve come unstuck against them we haven’t been able to match them physically or deal with their physicality round the corner and their breakdown stuff.” Melbourne Storm rugby league coach Jason Ryles was working with the squad at their Pennyhill Park base yesterday. The Australian’s temporary presence on the invitation of Jones is hardly a vote of confidence in England defence coach Paul Gustard, but the head coach wants an expert on the two-man tackles he believes will stop the Springboks in their tracks. “Everyone knows the biggest thing they bring is physicality. They come at you like a wave. It keeps coming, battering you down,” said Youngs. “I think they’ll go back to tradition and try to beat us up to a degree but the boys are really focused on that. Jason has come in to help with our two-man tackles to make sure we’re physical in that area.

England Rugby fans in fancy dress Wed, March 23, 2016 England Rugby fans never miss a chance to dress up... Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 13 England rugby fans are some of the most passionate in the world, and never miss an opportunity to dress up...