More Of That could be a fascinating contender in Saturday’s BetVictor Gold Cup following the glowing endorsements of Jonjo O’Neill.

The participation of the 2014 World Hurdle winner is subject to rubber-stamping by his owner, J P McManus, and some rain, but trainer O’Neill seemed to suggest Cheltenham would be on the cards after a recent reappearance at Carlisle was declined because of the ground.

“I’m desperate to run him,” O’Neill said. “Our horses are running a bit below par at the moment, but he seems in good form.” More Of That was restricted to only three chase starts last term. He won twice over Saturday’s course and distance before finishing third in the RSA Chase at the Festival.

O’Neill felt More Of That’s breathing was not quite right that day and the eight-year-old has since had another corrective wind operation.

More Of That is 11-2 second-favourite with the sponsor for Saturday’s race behind Paul Nicholls’ Frodon and is currently due to carry 11st 6lb. After typically tongue-in-cheek remarks that he thought he had “improved him a stone and a half” and that Sir Tony McCoy “would come back for this fella” after riding him in work recently, O’Neill was asked whether the gelding could become a realistic contender for the Gold Cup in March.

“I definitely think he is, I think he’s the best horse I’ve trained, but unfortunately he has had a few problems,” he said. “Hopefully, he’s on the up. I would just have in the back of my mind that he’d always have a little doubt getting the trip in the Gold Cup because he’s got a lot of pace. He’s really special.”

Joining More Of That in the field would be stablemate Taquin Du Seuil, also a former Festival winner, who “did everything you could ask” when shaping nicely on a pipe-opener at Chepstow.

Cheltenham’s clerk of the course, Simon Claisse, reports that more rain is forecast over the next five days than they have received during the past two months. “We could get two bouts of 9-10mm Tuesday night and Friday night,” he said. “Come Saturday, we might end up good to soft.”

A deluge is required to save Friday’s cross-country race. A decision will be made tomorrow whether to replace it with a handicap.