Samsung has taken out a full-page advert in multiple US newspapers to apologise for the faulty Note 7 phone, which has now been subject to a worldwide recall.

The advert in Monday’s Wall Street Journal, New York Times and Washington Post, is signed by Samsung’s North America chief executive, Gregory Lee. It offers an apology for falling short on the company’s ambition to “offer best-in-class safety and quality.

“We will re-examine every aspect of the device, including all hardware, software, manufacturing and the overall battery structure,” Lee wrote. “We will move as quickly as possible, but will take the time needed to get the right answers.”

The apology focuses on the Note 7, which was supposed to be Samsung’s flagship extra-large phone until it was revealed that it had a dangerous tendency to overheat and catch fire.

Rurik Bradbury (@RurikBradbury) Full-page apology ads are the future of print media: pic.twitter.com/fBAZ9uXFmD

But it also covers Samsung’s other ongoing PR nightmare: the revelation that some of the company’s top-loading washing machines are capable of vibrating themselves to pieces, in one case breaking a customer’s jaw. The company has instituted a voluntary recall to address the issue and is offering free in-home repair and rebates for owners. “Our service teams are visiting homes this week to help resolve concerns,” Lee added.

Samsung recalls 2.8m washing machines after reports of explosions Read more

Meanwhile, in New Zealand, the Note 7’s recall is almost complete, but some customers are refusing to give up their phones, hoping that the risk of fire is worth it to keep what is otherwise a well-respected phone. As a result, New Zealand’s mobile networks are teaming up with Samsung to disconnect the device from their networks entirely.

From 18 November, the Note 7 will no longer work on any mobile carrier in the country. “Numerous attempts by all providers have been made to contact owners and ask them to bring the phones in for replacement or refund. This action should further aid the return of the remaining handsets,” said Geoff Thorn, the head of the NZ Telecommunications Forum.